Okay, well, what we're gonna do
now in our console is declare and
assign some of our own variables.
So your mission, should you choose
to accept it, is to declare and
assign variables to remember
a few different things.
Number one, your name, whatever
nickname for yourself you so choose.
Number two,
the combined age of your parents.
I'm gonna ask you to use
an expression when you
declare this variable as
an extra little challenge.
And then, number three, the thing that
we really could have used earlier,
a variable to remember the element
with ID board on our Tic Tac Toe page.
So let's go back to our Tic Tac Toe page,
open up the console again if you had
closed it, and declare some
variables to remember these things.
All right, so how we fill in with
our new-found variable powers?
Pretty good,
seeing some confident nods, okay.
So our name, we could maybe use a let or
did anybody use a const for this one?
No, in my case,
I'm maybe gonna use a const because my
name is not gonna change,
I have no plans to change it.
So it could be maybe your first
name if you chose your full name,
whatever you did.
We have a pretty standard a declare and
assign a string, cool.
Okay, now, the next question was
the combined age of your parents, and
I asked you to use an expression
in your solution to this.
So, can anybody walk me
through what they did?
Chu, you wanna walk us
through your solution?
You look like you have a,
confident thought?
>> I don't know if I did it right.
>> [LAUGH] That's okay,
we can talk it through.
>> I just say lag
combinedParentsAge is equal to.
>> Did you spell it like this?
>> Like combinedParentsAge in our favorite
little new camel case, naming equal to?
>> Two numbers?
>> Two numbers.
Okay, so
how did you combine those two numbers?
We can choose random numbers,
you don't have to disclose your parent's
personal identifying information, but
let's pretend that they're, I don't know.
Let's make them nice and young,
like 23 and 24, I don't know, [LAUGH].
How did you assign this to two numbers?
>> Plus.
>> Plus, exactly, so
that is exactly right.
So again, we can use expressions
where we would use values.
So instead of using the value at 47, here,
I can use plus to create
an expression that evaluates to
a number which then is on the right-hand
side of my assignment operator equals.
So that now when I ask JavaScript for
combinedParentsAge,
it remembers the sum, it remembers
the value to which that expression,
that addition expression evaluated.
So am I going to be able to get back out
the original 23 and 24 from this variable?
No, cuz what JavaScript does is it's
going to evaluate the expression,
add the numbers together,
get the result, and
then remember that as the value for
combinedParentsAge.
Excellent, thanks so much Chu.
Okay, now, what about this last one?
This one that was just like so
annoying earlier,
we had to keep typing document dot blah,
blah, blah all over.
Can anybody walk me through
their solution for storing or
remembering the value of
the ID board element, Stephen?
>> Sorry, declared a variable board.
>> Okay, how, walk me through it.
>> That's equal to document.queryselector.
>> Okay, so
the declaring part which you're like yeah,
I just declare a variable, no big deal,
but let's walk through it in specifics,
what keyword did you use?
>> Let.
>> Let, beautiful.
>> Board.
>> Equals document.queryselector board.
>> Okay, just board like this?
>> No, I actually put the.
>> The hash?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah,
exactly because we're gonna look for
the element with the ID of board as
opposed to a tag board which we
probably don't have in our page, right?
Great, okay, so now,
board is a div, it is that element,
so now we can work with board
like we did before, like,
We can do board.children.length instead
of document dot, blah, blah, blah.
So variables make our lives easier cuz now
we can capture this value once as it were,
remember it as a shorter thing,
board, and then use board,
the word, the name board,
in our code wherever we want.
The document.queryselector.blah,
blah, blah, blah.
Cool, excellent work,
great job, everybody.
Any questions?
Yeah.
>> I was just playing around and
instead of lad, I use var, and
that still worked,
is that an acceptable alternative to let?
>> I was wondering when this question
was gonna crop up, all right,
excellent question.
There is a third keyword
that we can use to declare
variables in JavaScript, and it is var.
So var, I don't know, var title,
let's say it could be document.title,
and now, this works a lot like let.
So for example, unlike const,
if I do const h1 and
do document query selector h1.
If I try to define this to something
else now, we said with const,
I can't do it,
const can't be changed, let can,
right like parents,
what did I have combinedParentsAge, okay?
CombinedParentsAge can be changed
to whatever we want because we
declared it with let.
Const does not let us, var does or
does not let us reassign the variable.
What do you think?
It does, exactly.
So I could do title
equals whatever I want.
So in some ways, var is similar to let,
are they the same?
No, what is the difference between them?
I'm gonna put a pin in that,
we're gonna talk about it tomorrow.
So the difference between var and
let, well,
there's one difference is
that var is older than let.
Let and const, are kind of new kids on
the block, relatively speaking, they
both came into JavaScript in a version
of the language that was called Es6.
Sorry, Es2015, Es stands for ECMAScript,
this is a complicated JavaScript trivia,
the standards body that says
this is valid JavaScript.
It captures that validity in
a specification called ECMAScript, so
we talk about versions of
JavaScript with this ES nonsense.
So ES 2015 or ES6 introduced let and
const as new ways of creating and
assigning variables with
new rules around them.
The older way going back to 95,
it was var.
So you will still see var in code
that you find around on the web.
I am going to say just right now
similarly to how I said don't
use the double equals loosey
goosey equality operator.
Generally, you're not gonna wanna use var,
tomorrow, we're gonna talk about scope in
JavaScript, and we're gonna talk about
the difference in scope between var and
let which is kind of its equivalent.
Previously, there was no const type thing,
all variables were read declarable.
So I'm gonna put a pin in that,
but I will say that in general,
these days, almost always you're
gonna want a let instead of a var.
Because let is more predictable,
it's easier to predict what it's gonna do
based on the scope rules of JavaScript,
which we're gonna talk
about later in the course.
So, var is a thing,
it is out there, it is a keyword,
it works very similarly in many ways
to let, not the same, try to avoid it.
[LAUGH] Is what I would say
about var at this point.
Great question.